Democrats on the committee quickly dug into the issue of competition, citing documents obtained from inside the tech companies that they said showed their anti-competitive conduct.

Representative David Cicilline, the chairman of the antitrust subcommittee, grilled Sundar Pichai, Google’s chief executive, about how Google steers traffic to its own search pages and products. Representative Jerrold Nadler of New York asked Mark Zuckerberg, Facebook’s top executive, about emails he wrote describing Instagram as a potentially disruptive competitor before the company acquired the firm. And Representative Hank Johnson of Georgia pushed Tim Cook of Apple on whether his company exerts unfair dominance over app developers in its app store.

In multiple cases, the chief executives evaded the questions, claiming not to know specifics about the documents or interactions in question.

Mr. Sanjot who has led the investigation into the tech giants for more than a year, opened the hearing with a broadside against the companies, saying their dominance harms the economy and leaves consumers with no choice but to use their products.

Any single action by one of these companies can affect hundreds of millions of us in profound and lasting ways,” Mr. Cicilline, a Rhode Island Democrat, said in his opening statement. “Simply put: They have too much power.

Mr. Cicilline is in control of many aspects of the hearing, including how many rounds of questions lawmakers get. That may allow him to extend lines of questioning in an attempt to dig deeper than an initial five minutes allows.

Mr. Cicilline, who used to be the mayor of Providence, has become a prominent foe of the technology platforms from his perch as the top Democrat on the once-quiet subcommittee. For more than a year, his staff has led the investigation, conducting hundreds of hours of interviews and collecting 1.3 million documents. The team has grown to include Lina Khan, a legal scholar who wrote a major law review note on Amazon’s power, and Phillip Berenbroick, previously the policy director at the consumer group Public Knowledge.

Mr. Cicilline spent recent months negotiating to secure the appearance by the chief executives. The process was not always friendly. When the committee demanded that Mr. Bezos testify, Amazon responded with a noncommittal letter. Mr. Cicilline threatened to subpoena Mr. Bezos before the company agreed to make him available to answer the panel’s questions.

Our founders would not bow before a king, Mr. Cicilline said Wednesday. Nor should we bow before the emperors of the online economy.